[Music]
ten things you should never do to your
car are you in control of your car or is
it in control of you though cars get
safer every year if you don't keep it
properly maintained or use the parts
incorrectly you could find yourself in a
tricky situation at the worst possible
time modern cars use computer systems
and this makes the driving experience a
smooth process the computer can block
conflicting commands and warn the driver
about potential issues today's cars are
also packed with plenty of safety
features like airbags anti-lock braking
systems traction control and
shatterproof glass
however despite your car sophisticated
safety features or computer system it's
still a good idea to avoid doing certain
things so check out these important
things to avoid before you do make sure
you click the subscribe button and turn
on notifications to be one of the first
rightsiders to watch our videos number
one don't press the off button while
driving if your car can be started with
a simple press of a button have you ever
wondered what would happen if you push
the off button while driving you might
imagine yourself coming to a harsh and
setting stop if you happen to do it
accidentally while driving at a
reasonably high speed don't worry when
you press the button the car will keep
on driving modern cars have many safety
features to account for accidental
pressing of this button thus preventing
accidents but this does vary according
to the model of the car some cars might
require you to press the button for
three seconds or more to shut it down
this is a safety feature in case you
have a problem with your accelerator or
brakes if you are dealing with an
emergency that involves your accelerator
the best choice is to switch the car to
neutral instead of trying to shut it off
number two don't select reverse while
driving if you change into reverse mode
while driving the chances are that
nothing serious will happen if your car
has cameras and a screen on the deck the
rear facing camera might come on or
parking aids might become available but
the car won't back up all of the sudden
or come to a stop did you know that it's
a natural urge to be curious about these
things to protect us from our own human
nature car
companies added a function called
reverse inhibit which is meant to
prevent the car from going into reverse
while driving although the computer
system in your car should ignore the
command to reverse don't try it anyway
number three don't select Park while
driving no your car won't explode or
send you hurling into oncoming traffic
if you shift to park while driving your
car might make an awful grinding noise
and continue driving your car probably
won't suffer damage if you accidentally
do this once the car's computer will
block the command for safety reasons but
you should know that giving conflicting
orders can damage your car's
transmission over time number four don't
attach too many keys to the ignition key
if your car is on the same keychain as
your apartment key your laundry room key
your work key and a ton of others the
bunch is probably quite heavy this
weight could potentially damage your
ignition switch over time gravity is
still at work when you put your car keys
into the ignition during car rides bumps
and potholes will cause these heavy keys
to pull and pull on the ignition until
it wears out the tumblers if you do this
you might find yourself with a car you
can't start this problem has an easy
solution though separate the keys
instead of piling them up leave only
your car key car alarm remote and home
key on the keychain
number five don't forget to change your
car's oil if you don't change your oil
your car will run less efficiently it
will also stop lubricating the engine
components causing wear and tear if the
mechanical components continue to grind
on each other the car might become
inoperable follow the manufacturer
specifications on how often to change
the oil it's there for a reason some
manufacturers require an oil change
every 3,000 miles for older cars newer
cars allow for oil changes to happen
every 5,000 or 7,500 miles the safest
thing to do is consult your owners
manual
when brand new cars leave the factory
some manufacturers might use very thin
oil which must be changed at about 600
miles leave yourself a reminder on your
phone or calendar of when your next oil
change is due
number six don't overfill the engine oil
the engine oil always comes with a
dipstick which has a mark to indicate
the level the oil needs to be filled to
fill it to this level and not to the top
as if it were a bottle common signs of
overfilling are if you see oil leaking
from your car if you smell burning
engine oil or if you see smoke coming
from the engine compartment over filling
your car's oil causes changes in the
lubrication of the mechanical parts this
can lead to engine damage which can
cause catastrophic engine failure and
then the entire engine needs to be
replaced number seven don't wait until
the fuel tank is empty if you let your
fuel run too low in addition to the risk
of running out of fuel on a busy road
you also risk damaging the car's
catalytic converter signs that your
car's catalytic converter has been
damaged or that your car won't
accelerate when you press the pedal your
car's fuel emission will drop suddenly
or your car won't start another aspect
to consider is that even the cleanest
fuel has some small particles in it that
gravity keeps at the bottom of your fuel
tank if your tank is almost empty and
you drive on fumes this residue gets
sucked into the engine generally
speaking it's good practice to fill up
the car when the fuel level falls to
about one quarter of the tank number
eight don't ignore warning indicators
not all warning signs are the same for
all cars but generally speaking there
are similar definitions for the colors
of the warning lights across most
manufacturers a green or blue warning
sign is an indication that a particular
system is activated a yellow system
normally indicates that something needs
to be serviced or checked a red warning
sign means that there's a serious issue
that needs immediate attention
you should stop your car because it may
be unsafe to drive a good rule of thumb
is that if you see a warning light on
the dashboard call or bring it to a
mechanic as soon as possible
if it's something that needs addressing
it might save your car if it's nothing
it'll at least give you peace of mind
number nine don't forget to check your
tire pressure checking your tire
pressure is a good practice that often
falls by
the wayside it's even more important to
do it when you're headed on a road trip
or if your daily commute is over 30
minutes the amount of air that tires
need varies according to the brand if
the pressure is too low it'll wear out
the tires very quickly and you'll be
forced to replace them if the tire
pressure is too high it'll also cause
excessive wear and the tires might lose
traction on the road to avoid this check
your tire pressure every now and then if
you feel that a tire might be flat it's
normally already flat as a pancake and
has been for a while that's a sign to
pay closer attention to your tires
number 10 don't forget to balance your
tires if you happen to hit the curb take
the car to a workshop and ask the
mechanics to check the balance and
alignment if the tires are out of
balance you don't have full control of
your car and your tires will wear
unevenly you might also feel every
single bump on the road find your car
shaking or see that your car veers to a
particular side if you take your hands
off the wheel for a moment taking your
car to a mechanic for balancing and
alignment will allow you to enjoy a
smooth ride and not be nauseous every
time you drive your car are you guilty
of any of these things do you know any
other important things to avoid tell us
in the comments section share this video
with your friends so everyone can be
safer on the road and don't forget to
click subscribe to stay on the bright
side of life